>> Mike North: Well,
let's take a step back now and
think about how we want to model this.
Like right now if we look at location,
it's sort of boring.
Like it has a name, a region,
which could be like a province or
a state in the US and it has a country.
But there's nothing here that
deals with this concept of like
answering the question
we're trying to answer.
Like when can I put my plants outside?
When is it going to be 50 degrees or
greater?
So let's think about how we
would want to model this.
Does anyone have any ideas?
If we were to start with location and
this has things on it like name,
what do we call it?
Region.
Oops, sorry.
We've got name, we've got region.
It's not gonna let me do
multiple bonded space things.
But like what are the other things that
probably need to be part of this story?
How would you all think about this?
Well, a temperature doesn't exist yet,
so we need something like a temperature.
What should a temperature have on it?
>> Nikita: Unit.
>> Mona: Max.
>> Mike North: Unit?
>> Nikita: Yeah.
>> Mike North: What kinds of
things should I have for unit?
>> Nikita: Celsius and finite.
>> Mike North: Yeah, you're looking
at like the API contract there,
which is good.
There's some existing software.
Like unless you're starting greenfield and
building something entirely new
that touches no other systems.
Sometimes you can look for
clues in terms of what already exists,
then I heard-
>> Nikita: Value.
>> Mike North: Value, that's a number.
Great, so we have that,
let's pretend I'm the gardener.
I've asked for this.
I want something that makes this work.
I want this tool to work.
And I hired a designer that made this for
me.
>> Mona: That Interaction between
the date and the temperature.
>> Mike North: The date and
the temperature.
Say Mona, you're onto something.
>> Mona: I'm not sure.
I mean a min and
a max would be the start of it.
>> Mike North: Absolutely.
A min and a max.
So what should we call this thing?
>> Nikita: Limit.
>> Mike North: A limit,
we could call it that.
Is that the thing with the min and
the max or is it?
Range.
>> Mona: Range, range has min and max.
>> Mike North: Sort of the upper and
the lower limit.
So great, why don't we call
this a temperature range and
we could say I heard min and max.
Okay, and so clearly we've got
something here, we've got mine and max.
So we'll represent those
with two arrows and
it's not quite like a belongs
to because remember this
here is probably,
>> Mike North: It's
probably a value object like
temperature because I don't think we're
gonna store 56.3 degrees Fahrenheit
in our database somewhere.
It's probably just sort of something that
gets embedded on something stored in
a database.
I'm gonna make a nice little tag here.
This we're gonna say is a value object and
make this a different color.
All right, what about temperature range?
Is that a value object or is it an entity?
And I'm gonna check chat here.
Range and location.
Great.
Yes, Santiago, you're on the right track.
Entities are in the database and values
are embedded on things in the database.
Temperature range.
Is this something that will have an id?
How would we articulate
this in spoken language?
>> Mona: It would always be
associated with an entity.
>> Mike North: I think so, right?
This is sort of like
a weather report range.
Like the low is.
The low today is 58, and the high
apparently is 82 in Minneapolis today.
So this is probably also a value object,
it has to be embedded on something,
and, so can we just do this?
Can we say a location
has a temperature range,
like Minneapolis has this low and
this high.
Does that get us all the way to
being able to estimate a date?
Pardon?
>> Nikita: Some measure of
time like season or month?
>> Mike North: We need some
measure of time, right?
We need to know at this point,
here's the expected min and max.
And at another point,
That would almost let us think
of this as a curve, right?
Where we're trying to find.
If you think of the temperature curve
throughout the year, let's say, and
we want to have a threshold where it's
above 50 degrees starting on this date.
Where does my line intersect
with the temperature curve?
Well, we need some measurement of time.
Let's call this a monthly temperature.
Then this will refer.
Let's just say this is like a month and
a range.
This is going to end up being an entity.
>> Mike North: Right,
this will store in a database,
you could imagine us reading
from some data source.
We have our locations,
we get our temperature data, and
then at runtime we're
trying to figure out.
All right, you've asked for this 50 degree
temperature, where exactly does that fit?
Really?
It's going to be something like this.
Let me rearrange these slightly.
This is a nice quick and
dirty tool here, but
sometimes the arrows
get a little bit weird.
Okay, so monthly temp has
a temperature range, which sort of.
You can think of it as embedding
a temperature range, and
that embeds two temperatures.
What's the relationship between
location and monthly temperature?
It seems like there's a relationship here.
Is it one to one?
>> Nikita: Has many.
>> Mike North: Has many, has many.
We can represent that.
Let's say it's one or many.
Really, we're in trouble if we have
less than 12 months of data here.
A location which is an entity
has many monthly temperatures,
each of which embeds a temperature range,
each of which embeds two temperatures.
>> Nikita: You're not going
to store two temperatures.
You're going to store like Kelvin, for
example, and then derive Celsius and
Fahrenheit from that for display.
>> Mike North: That's,
that's a very good, very good point there.
Like, we have multiple ways we
could represent this data and this.
You're getting into what's
called normalization, right?
Let's say we got this temperature
data from different sources.
Some of them are Fahrenheit,
some of them are Celsius,
some of them are Kelvin, which maybe,
do you think Kelvin is what a vegetable
gardener is probably thinking in terms of.
>> Nikita: You don't have negative
numbers with Kelvin, right?
>> Mike North: Right, right,
that's where absolute zero is
the lowest possible temperature.
That's zero Kelvin.
You don't see the kind of
thing on a weather report, but
it's totally a valid way
to represent temperature.
So we have to decide how are we
storing this information and
then how are we representing it in the ui.
Ultimately, I see I get a little like,
Fahrenheit, Celsius, thing here.
And presumably that's gonna define,
I noticed when I hit this,
look at the little label here,
it's changing.
So at the very least,
this is how I'm describing my input.
Presumably I want to see my output in,
in the temperature I asked for,
like in the units I asked for.
So that is certainly
something to consider.
But, like, where it would matter most
is if you wanted to have charts or
something that showed
that temperature curve.
If you're storing data sometimes in
Fahrenheit, sometimes in Celsius,
sometimes in Kelvin,
you're creating a lot of work for
like anything that is
built on top of this.
They will have to perform this,
like, normalization task.
Right, they'll have to translate
it into something that's very
consistent across all of the locations,
irrespective of what the data source was.
Okay, let's jump in.
I buy that this, as your resident
gardener, I would say this makes sense.
I'm looking for a day I don't need,
hour by hour, minute by minute,
when the temperature is
going to be what it is.
Especially if I'm in January trying to
figure out when do I start my plants,
like there's no way
like last year's day by
day temperature ranges
are not going to be accurate.
I want the monthly averages.
That seems fine, right, it's a prediction
with some error bars around it at best.
>> Nikita: I'm not really following.
What makes monthly temp different
than temperature range,
thus that we want to make it
an entity versus a value.
>> Mike North: Right.
We totally could do that.
We could say.
That's a very.
That's a very good point.
Here's an alternate representation.
Does anyone see anything better or
worse about this?
I'll give you a better thing.
It's one less thing to build,
so by default it's better.
Is there a downside?
How would you talk to your user and
understand whether you should
do what we modeled before?
Or this?
How would you answer that question
talking to your customer?
Let's say you're the tech
lead on the team and
it's up to you to figure out
which is the right pattern.
Are there some questions you might ask.
>> Nikita: If there are other places
you might use temperature range?
You're gonna reuse that type for
temperature range and
not to recreate a new value object for
temperature range?
>> Mike North: That's absolutely true.
Could be.
At this point it comes down to how
confident are you that you're going to run
into that?
Or is it okay to start here and
tease out that abstraction in the future?
And I mean, at this point,
temperature range doesn't
really add a lot of value here.
>> Nikita: Yeah, my question was more
not like consolidating those two types,
but where the line between a value and
an entity really lives.
Because obviously I think you don't
want to be storing temperatures as
like individual,
like columns in a database, their own IDs.
It doesn't make any sense,
especially if they're afloat.
But you get to a point with
like temperature range,
like how granular are the locations?
And do you really.
If each location is gonna have its own
range, should that be an entity or
should that be a value?
Because that kind of seems like
an entity should maybe be reused, but
I'm not entirely sure.
>> Mike North: All great,
all great points to think about.
Do you think we need this here?
This one to many range?
Like, sorry, one to many relationship?
Like, I would argue any valid solution
has to have this relationship.
Like locations have temperature
information at a point in time.
So no matter what, we need this.
I think it's kind of, at this point
we're just really discussing kind of
like the structure of whether there's
this additional level of one more
value object that represents this range.
It's almost like a tuple of
temperatures that represent, like,
the low and the high.
We could have other places
where temperatures exist.
Like, I don't know,
maybe the tomato seed packet has, like,
minimum outdoor temperature and
it's just 50 degrees.
Maybe there are times where we have.
We'll find either a temperature or
a temperature range.
Some seed packets say 50 degrees,
and some say between 45 and 55.
But at this point,
I think this is a simple representation,
as kind of as simple as we
can get away with for now.
And we should bias for that, right?
There's sort of the role of find two or
three places before you
tease out an abstraction.
Otherwise you can get into attempting
to model all of the details of
the real world.
And that's sometimes a trap.
You can end up overbuilding things for
that purpose.
Nikita asks, should an entity have an ID?
Does it make sense for
temperature ranges to have IDs?
You know, I forgot about this.
Entities should certainly have IDs.
We need an ID.
There.
I was sort of taking that as a given,
but we should list it out.
And then in this case, monthly
temperature ranges should have an id or
string, whatever we choose to use.